B.MAP ONE
9
1

B.MAP TWO
9

THE HOWLING
Be it known that to kill a werewolf
requires a special craft - one made of
silver.

IN SEARCH OF...
The magic item that will restore peace
amongst the people lieth far below on
another level...  Many perils stand
betwixt thou and that item...  Many
twisty mazes...  Many UPS and DOWNS...

FAMOUS BATS
Legend has it that killing vampires is
extremely difficult.  It takes the
correct weapon, one that has been
carefully crafted of the finest wood...

PLANT LIFE
You're having difficulty making out
the passage:

"...roots dissolve when exposed to
seawater..."

MAGICAL ARTIFACTS
The following is a brief list of known
potions and spells found in the land.
Report compiled by Wizards Local 345.

Scrolls:

Scroll of Anti-Magic:
Removes your magical spells!

Scroll of Endurance:
Increases your hit points.

Scroll of Doorways:
Allows you to create a doorway through
solid rock!

Scroll of the Mummy:
Teleports you to the Mummy's tomb.

Potions:

Skill potion:
Increases your skill with your currently
readied weapon until you READY again.

Vorpal potion:
Increases the damage with your currently
readied weapon, until you READY again.

Charm potion:
Will automatically charm any monster in
the current room.  This monster will
automatically ask to join you when you
leave.

MAP ONE
Level 1 map

SCROLL OF ANTI-MAGIC
By reading these magical arcane words,
you feel all your spells vanish as if
you never knew them...

PROSPECTING...
Be it known that in olden days the sign
of a truly WEALTHY adventurer was the
accumulation of 5,000 gold pieces... It
is said that without at least this
amount of gold, one could not leave the
LAND!

Be also aware of a holy object for the
knights of old...

ADVENTURER'S GUIDE
The novice adventurer should take these
words to heart:

 1) Eat and drink often enough to keep
    thy health up!
 2) READY a weapon before encountering
    the demon!
 3) Shields are of little value unless
    put to use!
 4) Armor carried is armor wasted!
 5) Mapping thy journey saves time &
    lives!
 6) Acquisitions made in haste can prove
    hazardous to thy health!
 7) Choose thy weapons well, for the
    strongest may not always be the most
    effective.

....courtesy of The Adventurers Widows &
                Orphans Guild

SCRAP OF PAPER
For a FAST ride, enter this when asked:
 ?0-14-97

WRAITHS - THE BOOK
Oh ye doomed traveler!

Ye must leave this terrible land at
once.  Even though parts may seem fair
and beautiful, it is ruled by the KING
OF THE RINGWRAITHS!  It is from this
kingdom that his cronies, the lesser
Ringwraiths, prowl the other realms of
Spur, seeking helpless souls upon which
to feed.  They roam freely in this
wretched land...

Yet, if there should prove to be the
long-awaited champion of the people, ye
may yet stand a chance of killing the
foul king, and rid Spur forever from the
tyranny of the Ringwraiths. For this,
your reward will be great indeed!

GUIDE TO THE AMULET
Ye weary traveler risks much in thy
journeys.  Rejoice now, for the author
will inform ye of a great and powerful
object that will be of great use to ye.
It is the Amulet of Life.  It is not
easy to get, for it resides on a tiny
deserted island in the vast reaches of
the western ocean.

Deserted that is, except for its
guardian, one of the dreaded
X-Dragons...

Once ye have gotten the Amulet of Life,
ye must energize it by drinking of the
Fountain of Youth.  Only then will its
powers be awakened.  It will actually
snatch the weary traveler from the very
jaws of death, and teleport them to
safety.  It is also the enemy of the
Amulet of Death, affording a measure of
protection for one who attempts to [READY]
that dreaded weapon.

GUIDE TO BIG ISLANDS
Besides the minor islands of the Great
Ocean, there are two known big islands.
These are the Isle of the Headhunters,
and the Great Island of the Ringwraiths.

The island of the Ringwraith is near the
top of the world, and it's [very] cold
there.  One is advised to bring a coat
along.  The King of the Wraiths is said
to have his castle somewhere there...

About the Isle of the Headhunters,
little is known except there is a rumor
that the Chief of the Headhunters has a
hidden treasure room. It is said that he
hides the only item in the Land capable
of killing the King of the Ringwraiths
with a single blow. Apparently the two
villains have a pact of some sort...

DEATH AMULET-BOOK
Listen now, my reader, as I tell ye of
the most dreaded weapon in all the land.
It is the Death Amulet.  Almost as
feared by the person wielding it as the
monster attacked by it.  It is rumored
to lie at the head of a vast underground
river somewhere on the 2nd level.  To
get there, ye must first secure a boat
of some sort.

Be aware also that there is another
Amulet in distant lands that affords
some measure of protection for the
wielder of the Death Amulet.

DEATH AMULET-GUIDE
Warning! This document is to be read
only by Adepts of the Black Arts. Herein
contains all known knowledge of the
Death Amulet, otherwise known as the
Dark Force in some less-learned circles.

It is said to reside at the headwaters
of an underground river in what is known
as the Level Of The Second. This is
disputed by some scholars, but is
generally accepted as being correct.

If one tries to [READY] the Death Amulet,
there is a 20% chance of dying
immediately (30% in duel)! However if
one also carries the Amulet of Life,
the risk is reduced to 10% (25% in
duel). Furthermore, if one has the
Amulet of Life properly energized, one
will be resurrected even if one should
die at the hands of the Death Amulet
(note that the Author does not pretend
to be an expert on the Amulet of Life,
such study being outside the realm of
the Brotherhood of the Black Arts).

Once one has the Death Amulet readied,
it manifests itself in this realm as a
Proximity weapon of 50 base damage!
Again, note that its nemesis, the Amulet
of Life, will reduce this to 15% if one
attacks another in duel who has that
Amulet (10% if one has the Amulet of
Life, and challenges another who has the
Death Amulet.)

Further study on this subject is only
possible first-hand...

SCROLL OF ENDURANCE
By reading these magical arcane words,
you feel some hit points return!

SCROLL OF DOORWAYS
By reading these magical arcane words,
you are endowed with the power to open a
doorway through the very walls in front
of you. Choose carefully the doorway to
open.

MUMMY'S SCROLL
As you read these ancient magical words,
you feel a long-dead person tugging at
your very being. Even as you read, you
are de-materialized and transported to
another realm. One not very friendly...
The Mummy's Tomb...

MAP TWO
A voice roars in your ear, ["I bet you
thought this was a map of Level Two!
Well, it ain't!!! Harr harr harrr!! Only
Rangers or those with the PALINTAR can
view such a map!!"]

MAP FOUR
Level 4 map

SHIP'S LOG
Stardate: 216.5

The end is near.  The ship's computer
has baffled even our science officer,
and thwarted all attempts to regain
control of the ship.  I fear that we in
the barricaded Bridge are the only
surviving humans left on board.  I do
not count the radiated humans under mind
control of the computer among our
company.  Let it be known that I,
Captain Uzaris, commander of the United
Federation Starship Starburst, do hereby
award commendations to the entire crew.
Let it be so recorded, and their
families rewarded accordingly.  I must
end now, they are reporting sounds of
heavy Maulers approaching the door of
the Bridge. We must all take part in the
final defense....

             [Captain Uzaris]
             [UFS Starburst, Commanding]


SPACE SCOUTS
To the Space Scouts of Alpha-Centauri,
always remember the Space Scouts motto:

'X' here, 'X' there, 'X' everywhere
makes a Scout healthy and wise.
