# Level 8 room descriptions
#  Consolidated: 10-14-2007
# of room descs: 224
#
# Spell-checked version is "s.t.roomdescs 8.txt"
#
#1
FOREST
0,2,18,0,0,0
You are wandering aimlessly around in
the Forest of Canolbarth. This appears
to be as far northwest as you can
proceed.
^
#2
FOREST
0,3,19,1,0,0
There appears to be evidence of some
logging in this area; there are deep
ruts in the soft ground. There are many
tree stumps, more stumps than there are
whole trees. The trees that remain here
seem to be either dead or dying.
^
#3
FOREST
0,3,19,1,0,0
Several of the shorter trees here
appear to be mutilated and horribly
twisted. Whether they were victims of
disease or intentional abuse, you may
never know.
^
#4
FOREST
0,4,20,2,0,0
A few scattered trees here bear tooth
marks on the lower part of their trunks
and gnawed bark hangs down in large
rough strips. A giant oak tree which
stands directly in front of you has
been blackened; most likely, from a
lightning strike. The leaves are gone
and the tree itself is cracked into
three pieces.
^
#5
FOREST
0,5,21,3,0,0
# FIXME: Why not UP?
# Before:
#You are standing at the base of a
#majestic oak tree which towers many feet
#above you. The foliage is quite dense,
#and you cannot see very far up into the
#tree. A series of rickety wooden planks
#are clumsily nailed to the side of the
#tree, allowing passage to the crown of
#the tree.
#
A majestic oak tree towers above you.
From the ground, dense foliage blocks
most of your view upwards. Clumsily
nailed rickety wooden planks allow
passage to the tree's crown.
^
#6
TREASURE ROOM
0,5,21,3,0,0
A rough path snakes through the middle
of this room. At intervals stand richly
decorated suits of armor, ghostly
knights guarding the treasure. Piles of
precious baubles litter either side of
the path: necklaces, chalices, rings,
golden bowls, long tusks of ivory and
gold; brooches, amulets, silver and
platinum chains. Heaps of unset stones
lay in great piles as though they were
marbles - diamonds, rubies, carbuncles,
topazes and amethysts. Underneath some
shelves are large chests of oak banded
with iron and heavily padlocked.
Everything is coated in dust, and there
is an air of sadness and gloom about
the place.
^
The walls in this room are filled with
shelves which are filled with books
with such strange names as "The Life
and Letters of Silenus" or "Nymphs and
Their Ways" or "Men, Monks, and
Game-Keepers: A Study In Popular
Legend." There are numerous chairs
scattered around the room which look as
if they used to be extremely inviting
and comfortable. Oil lamps look as if
they provided pleasant if not adequate
reading light. A desk in the middle of
the room is covered with dusty,
complicated-looking magical machinery
and ancient symbols. The stuff looks so
dangerous, and the runes so forbidding,
that you hesitate to go near any of it.
^
Floor to ceiling shelves hold many
yellowing boxes and crumbling wooden
barrels of food. Many different shapes
of packages done up with frayed cord
are on the shelves, and small
grease-stained bags of unknown origin
fill the cracks up.
^
Rusty pots and pans hang from hooks on
the stone wall. A wood stove used for
cooking is thickly covered in cobwebs
and is quickly falling to disrepair.
Large dusty counters still hold their
collections of old kitchen utensils and
rotting meats. A great stone fireplace
is in the north corner of the room; it
has been cold for many years. A doorway
leads into what appears to be a small
pantry.
^
Several differently sized human
skeletons are clustered in groups
around the central circular table; most
are wearing tattered rags and some have
their forks halfway to their mouths;
one hapless diner was in the process of
chewing when he died. To the west is a
stone archway through which you see a
kitchen.
^
Here too, skeletons are sitting on
rough benches next to the tables.
Plates of unappealing-looking food lie
next to a sword that is permanently
stuck in the table at a rakish angle,
almost up to its hilt. Muddy rodent
tracks lead to a small crack in thhhe
southwest corner. Bones and rotten food
litter the floor. A shattered wine
glass lies next to a yellowed pack of
playing cards.
^
Furnishings here are threadbare and
worn, but look as if they used to be in
good shape and well made. A giant
four-poster canopy bed is the most
impressive work of carpentry you've
seen to date. Intricate scrollwork
adorns the bed, and though time has
obscured many details, you can still
make out several bas-relief figures
which hold up the canopy.
^
The view from here is magnificent: you
can see the whole forest and the
mountains which are bathed in a gentle
pink and yellow glow of the setting
sun. To the south are some stairs which
lead down.
^
You are in the northeast corner of the
abandoned tower. A loud and steady
dripping noise can be heard, and you
can smell the faint cloying odor of
vanilla.
^
You look down on lush green and brown
squares of land, just barely visible
from this height. The flood basin
certainly has blessed the land with
fertility.
^
You are climbing a set of roughly
carved stone steps. A vast precipice
with a wonderful view of the valley
below is to your west, and Ettinsmoor
lies to your east.
^
This lonely moor is situated to the
north of Watersmeet. It is rumored that
witches and hags use the area for their
secret ceremonies on clear nights when
the moon is full. A brisk wind blows
off the surface of the murky waters,
chilling you momentarily. Gaunt trees
bent almost double from the blast
remind you of unfortunate souls praying
for mercy in the hands of cruel and
torturous captors. To the west lies a
set of giant stone steps leading
upward.
^
This is a pleasantly quiet place. A
birch tree with large roots invites
comfortable repose against the smooth
bark. Long green grass begs you to
remove your shoes and frolic in the
softness for but a moment...
^
This glen is filled with bushy pine
trees. Their needles snap and crunch
when you step on them, and the air
seems very dry. The droning hum of
insects makes you slightly drowsy.
^
The path widens momentarily here; trees
are growing in a rough semicircle
around the edges of the path. You have
some breathing room at last, and the
sun shines brightly down.
^
The glare of the sun momentarily blinds
you as you walk into this area. Most of
the trees here are saplings and offer
no protection from the heat.
^
You are standing next to a tall tree.
There is a branch just within your
reach; you might be able to climb up
and grab hold of it if you wished.
^
You have come as far east as you can.
A stout iron fence (fairly new too,
from the look of it) stops you from
going any farther.
^
There is a small doorway to the south.
Silver and gold light twinkles from
between the cracks around a closed and
heavily barred oak-panelled door to the
north which has a brass handle. Faint
rodent-like squeaking noises can be
heard from within the room on the other
side of the door. Several sets of red
beady eyes glare malevolently at you
from a large crack in the masonry in
the northeast corner of the room.
^
You are near the west end of a long
corridor. Several bats brush carelessly
against you. Spiderwebs cling all over
the walls and floor. A disused torch
rests in a rusty sconce on the wall to
the south. To the north lies a door.
^
You are in the east wing of a long
corridor. A large stone fireplace is
before you, cold and covered in cobwebs
from years of disuse.
^
You are in the Great Hall, in the
middle of a long corridor. Several
menacing looking suits of armor stand
before you, flanking the entryways to
the east and west as well as the exit
to the south. They hold sharp axes
which are permanently raised as if to
challenge your right to be here. You
can almost imagine eyes glaring at you
through the visor.
^
You are in the middle of a long
corridor. The east end of the dining
hall can be seen to to the north. The
drawbridge is to the southwest, as seen
through chinks in the masonry.
^
You are nearing the east end of a long
corridor. Many faded banners occupy
space on the stone walls. The most
magnificent one hangs down in the
middle of the archway to the east. A
pleasant shade of blue, it seems to
draw attention to itself quite readily
on its own merit.
^
You are near the east end of a long
corridor. Simply constructed spiral
stone stairs lead up to a darkened
balcony, and dusty green tile stairs
edged with dull brass trim lead up
towards a doorway to the north.
^
An enormous bookcase groaning under the
weight of musty magic books fills
virtually all of the southwest corner
of this abandoned tower. Some of the
more distinguishable titles are "The
Art Of Magic Pleasantlie Open'd to
Tender Wits" or "Popular Wizardry
Volume One: Abracadabra to Hocus-Pocus"
or "Cantrips: Are They Really All
They're Cracked Up To Be? A Definitive
Study By Gandalf, Wizard; Esq."
^
You are in the southeast corner of the
abandoned tower. Yellowed scolls and
strange magical paraphernalia which are
covered with a thick layer of dust
reside on a rickety set of shelves next
to a paneless window.
^
You are standing on the edge of a dock
which extends out into the water.
Looking towards the east, you can see
the river which flows gently past...
Pebble Beach is towards the south.
^
The river slowly but surely comes to a
near-standstill here; the channel gets
narrower and the water gets choppier.
Way off in the distance towards the
east, you can see the short squat
pilings of Watz Upp Dock, and land.
^
This large, blue, deep, wet lake gets
its name from the fact that there are
many smaller tributaries from different
provinces of the land that end up here.
You feel almost lost; an insignificant
speck in the vastness of the lake
(small ocean?). You begin to give up
hope of finding your way back, then you
spy a small piece of land against the
horizon to the north. The east, south,
and west are completely devoid of any
detail. You decide to use it as a
landmark and not let it out of your
sight. Meanwhile, it is incredibly
relaxing to float around without a care
in the world. The sun is hot but not
unpleasantly so; the light breeze from
the water keeps you cool. You bob
around in your dingy, letting the
gentle waves take you wherever they
may.
^
This narrow, swift river quickly takes
you thrice the length you expected to
go in half the time. Without even
thinking, you let the current carry you
on.
^
This is a fine sandy beach near which
to put in if you wished to. The current
is slow and lazily meanders over the
smooth bottom. You could most likely
get out right here, and walk to the
south, towing the dingy; the water is
fairly warm and not too deep.
^
The river sluggishly moves on: the
banks are narrow and tall, and you can
see the different-colored layers of
rock and soil.
^
The speed of the foaming water has not
decreased much, it pushes you and your
dingy along at a furious rate, almost
as if by an invisible hand of some
sort.
^
WOW! That was some ride! You fell about
100 feet straight down, plunged
headlong into the frigid foaming water,
but still managed to hang on to the
side of the dingy. Your teeth are
chattering violently and you can't stop
shivering. There is a light fog from
the waterfall, and the thunderous noise
will most likely deafen you if you stay
here much longer! You simply must find
somewhere to dry off!
^
A stand of poplar trees blocks your way
to the south. A squat stump is in the
middle of the ring of trees; it has
fungus growing on it and flabby white
wild mushrooms growing off the top of
it.
^
This path is lined with coarse gravel
and looking up you notice a thickly
interwoven canopy of branches and
leaves overhead which provides
pleasantly cool shade from the sun.
^
Groups of wind-swept trees remind you
of old women huddled together
gossiping. There are trees which you
cannot identify, and you surmise that
they must have been transplanted from
Archenland or perhaps Alfheim.
^
Rows of logs, both thick and thin, lie
lashed together using stout cord in
neat piles alongside the rutted road
through the trees. Wide open spaces are
becoming more common as the push for
colonization increases and logging
activity increases. Happily, though,
most loggers replant two trees for each
one they cut down.
^
This solemn-looking place is mostly
gently rolling hills covered with dried
grass. To the east is a sheer rock
face, the top of which cannot be seen.
Crude handholds may make passage
upwards possible.
^
You throw yourself upon the top of the
rock face, panting with exertion. A
giant nest, made of various sizes of
twigs and small tree branches scavenged
from the forest floor takes up most of
the area here. At first glance, it
appears that two small stone statues
and a larger statue are currently
occupying this nest.
^
The wind whistles fiercely through this
room, the reason being there is little
left of the southwest wall to prevent
it from doing so. A tree must have
fallen down upon it in a terrible
windstorm years ago. The east wall
holds what remains of a small
bookshelf.
^
This passage has not been used in
years. You can see a very dim light to
the east. The walls look weak back
here, and large wooden timbers serve as
braces so they don't fall down.
^
There are boxes and boxes of dusty
glass and crystal bottles with twirly
writing on them. Trunks filled with
faintly scented cloths in faded colors
and chipped beakers and flexible tubing
and funnels and other things you cannot
find the words to describe fill this
ancient room. Perhaps it was an alchemy
laboratory in earlier times?
^
A large statue of a woman domintates
the center of this room. She is smiling
beatifically, and seems to be offering
you something in her outstretched
hands.
^
You are at the middle of a large narrow
hallway which is filled with remarkably
lifelike sculptures of men and beasts.
Paintings of the forest, strangely
distorted yet oddly vivid, line the
walls.
^
This used to be Mananan's waiting room
for magical consultation among his
colleagues; chairs here have seen much
use. Pictures on the back wall seem to
move when you are not looking directly
at them.
^
Here a pale greenish light emanates
from nowhere in particular and the desk
and walls are covered with arcane
symbols and spooky magical stuff that
no doubt maintained Mananan's image but
don't impress you. Much.
^
The humid air in here makes you sweat a
lot. Peering down a hole that is in the
middle of the floor, you are hit in the
face by a blast of steam.  Faint
bubbling and cooking-popping noises
come from down below. The strong smell
of sulphur does nothing to improve the
general state of things.
^
The spacious guest lodgings so
graciously provided by your hosts
actually turn out to be not that bad.
Silken pillows help calm your jangled
nerves as you sink down into them. A
sizeable hole has been cut in the
ceiling, and it is open to the sky. A
net has been attached to prevent small
animals and debris from falling down
onto people's heads. The East Quarters
are to (where else?) the east.
^
Comforatable futon beds and a small yet
useful writing desk occupy this wing.
Several tasteful and moderately
handsome sect masks adorn the simple
walls. They have pleasant smiles, and
invite a restful night's sleep.
^
In the center of the wall opposite the
entrance to this large room is a carved
wooden face that that fills the area
from floor to ceiling. The carving is
highly polished, and flashes with
reflections of light. The mouth is
slightly open, and the eyes seem to
glare at you for a split second, then
the expression softens. In the center
of the room sits a pedestal with a
perfectly preserved stuffed or
otherwise immobilized hummingbird.
^
This narrow strip of land is covered
with every imaginable kind of pebble
known in creation. Little ones, big
ones, shiny ones, dull ones, round
ones, square ones... well, you get the
idea. There are lots of pebbles here.
To the north is the water, to the south
is a deep smoking crack in the earth.
^
A twisting, turning trail leads upwards
to the south and down towards the east.
^
A twisting, turning trail leads upwards
to the west and down and south towards
Watersmeet.
^
This looks like a likely spot to pull
in. The water is calm and unhurried,
there's no chance of the dingy being
swept out to the river again once you
beach it. A meandering path that snakes
between two stately elms can be seen to
the south.
^
You are in the Merchant's Annex.
^
A path leads down into the ground to
the west, and other paths lead off to
the north, east and south.
^
To the south is a grand view of the
waterfront district; a nice dock can be
seen down that way..
^
A magnificent lake is to the south, you
can see it over the slight rise in the
land. It looks very cool and
refreshing.
^
Your path takes a sudden zig-zag route
as the grade of the hill increases
sharply. Luckily, the road is
hard-packed dirt and not slippery
gravel. You fight your way to the top
of the hill and turn for a moment to
survey your surroundings. High in the
sky circles a lone eagle, and for a
moment it is as if you are the only two
beings in the world. You turn away, and
with renewed spirit continue on your
way.
^
Your way is partially blocked by a rock
pile that has buried some hapless
adventurer. A skeletal hand is sticking
out of the rocks still clutching a
useless rusty sword.
^
High sandstone walls surround you,
blocking the sun's warmth. Faint traces
of ancient rock paintings catch your
eye. Looking more closely, the image of
a bear takes form.
^
The canyon takes a sharp turn here to
the west. The canyon floor is fairly
smooth and easy to travel on.
^
You stand on the edge of a dry moat in
front of a run-down castle. The
drawbridge is closed. An unearthly
voice whispers faintly, "What is the
password?" and fades away to be
replaced by the steady yet unobtrusive
(almost pleasant) chirping of crickets.
^
To say that this place is a dust bowl
would be entirely correct. In fact,
that's basically what this place IS. A
giant dust bowl. (Sorry, it's nothing
like a sugar bowl or even the Super
Bowl.) The wind whips stinging sand
granules into your face with painful
accuracy.
^
You stumble over the rough ground,
cursing the lack of a path. Two stately
pine trees stand here to your right. To
the east lies a dark tunnel leading
into a hillside. To the west is a giant
expanse of shifting sands. Leading
south, a path winds up to a windswept
hilltop.
^
This almost-but-not-quite pitch black
hole in the ground is hard to navigate
around, there are lots of bumps and
rocks you keep tripping over. As near
as you can tell, there are exits to the
west and south.
^
This room is lavishly adorned with
likenesses of hummingbirds on the
walls, floor, ceiling, and altar.
^
You stand in a quiet hall. A
multicolored beaded curtain hangs
between you and the guest quarters.
Smooth tiles, aqua hued, chill your
feet.
^
You stand just behind a sparkling azure
pool. The water is calm and you can see
the tiny blue tiles on the bottom.
^
You notice several priestesses lying
down on simple mats, resting from the
exertion of praying.  The walls are
covered in masks and tapestries.
^
This ledge is terrifyingly steep. You
kick a pebble over the edge, listening
for any noise. You don't hear any.
^
To the east is an underground river.
To the south appear to be some
catacombs. To the north is a winding
trail.
^
This wide, dark roaring river flows
swiftly towards the east.
^
The bridge is broken in half. Towards
the west you can see a vast underground
river. You can still turn back the way
you came towards the east.
^
These caverns are quite large, the
ceiling is lost in the shadows above
your head.
^
Volcanic and seismic activity has
thrust the ground up into hundreds of
chunks. Crackling of fire underneath
your feet and smoking holes in the
ground make this area dangerous.
^
You have stumbled into an ogre's lair.
Each chamber in this cavern complex is
lit by a crude, smoking torch. The dim,
flickering illumination reveals burial
chambers, littered with old bones,
skulls, and rotting shrouds. You hear a
fierce grating roar! Prepare to do
battle!
^
You are in the crown of a tall oak
tree. To the north you can see the
Merchant's Annex. To the east you can
see a hilltop. To the south you can see
a lake and mountain.
^
You are on a lonely, narrow, dark path.
Treasures, perils, and mysteries await
the adventuresome.
^
You are standing on a dock which
extends towards the east.
^
A small lake stretches out before you
to the east. Another dock can be seen
down that way as well.
^
You get out of your dingy, moor it on
the dock, and knock at the door of this
house... Receiving no reply, you try
the door. Finding it unlocked, you
decide to come in and poke around a
little, being an adventurer. So now you
are standing in the front room. There
are some stairs which go down towards
the east, and another room towards the
east. Some stairs that go up towards
the south are here too, trying hard not
to be noticed.
^
You are in a comfortable-looking living
room. Dark wood panelling adds warmth
to the tasteful decor. Several stools
and a couch are arranged around the
room next to a bookcase and a stone
hearth. A finely woven Oriental rug is
in the middle of the room.
^
This canyon stretches out for quite a
distance.
^
If you've ever read "The Chronicles of
Narnia" you'll probably know who the
Telmarines are. Anyway, these are the
Telmarine Hills.
^
You're in a cave with paths going every
which-way. Well, not EVERY which-way.
Just SOME which-ways. Check the line
"Ye may travel:" and you'll see WHICH
which-ways... (Still with me?)
^
You're on a central hilltop overlooking
this cute 3x3 grid which is the
stomping grounds of that stinking,
sodding, no-good rotten Dwarf. Of
course, if you've already killed him,
the Dwarf is gone and there's really no
point in reading this, but I just
display the text like it is. I COULD
check to see if the Dwarf was dead, but
that would be extra work. And we all
know how Pinacolada hates work.
Especially programming adventure games.
So talk to HIM, and don't complain to
ME about it. I'm just the PROGRAM that
he wrote and I'm doing EXACTLY what he
told me to. So if your inventory goes
PLOOIE or you wake up some dark day and
find your stats have been altered to
all -1e+90, you know who to rag on.
NOT ME! Ok, anyway, you're on a
hilltop.
[AUTHOR'S NOTE: I DID NOT WRITE THIS.
REALLY. THE PROGRAM WROTE IT. WE ALL
KNOW HOW CRAFTY COMMODORE 64'S CAN BE!]
[PROGRAM NOTE: DID! YOU LIAR! HEY YOU
OUT THERE - DON'T LISTEN TO HIM!]
[AUTHOR'S NOTE: NOT! BE AFRAID. BE VERY
AFRAID... I'D BE CAREFUL IF I WERE
YOU!]
That's enough of this. Back to the
game.
^
Well, it's just what it says.  A LONG
TUNNEL. If you have any questions leave
feedback.
^
This is quite a beautiful altar, all
decked out in silver and gold and shiny
stuff. Pretty impressive.
^
This hall is pretty HALLowed.
^
How this stuff got here you'll never
know. It's kind of interesting, kind of
like that stuff you put in the bottom
of fish tanks.
^
For being priests these guys aren't
acting very holy! At least not today.
Looks like they're having a toga party
(how appropriate!) and crushing beer
cans with their foreheads and reading
girlie magazines.
^
These catacombs are quite extensive.
Dark passageways lead off in almost any
direction, but something tells you
(perhaps this very sentence) you'd
better only go south or north if you
want to wake up in one piece tomorrow
morning.
^
This path IS pretty steep. It makes
Mount Everest look like a walk in the
park. Oh well. It's always good to push
yourself. Or better yet, have someone
push YOU. In a wheelchair. When you get
old.
^
This path IS pretty narrow. It makes
tightrope walking look easy. Oh well.
It's always good to get vertigo once in
awhile. It builds character.
^
Hello, what's this? A giant temple
looms in front of you. This must be the
place where you get in.
^
This too is a sensible basement,
everything laid out logically. Dirty
clothes are laid in two neat piles for
lights and darks. A spacious
conversation pit is in the middle of
the room. Stairs go up. Well, actually
YOU go up THEM. But you know what I
mean.
^
This upstairs bedroom is one of the
nicest and most sensible looking
bedrooms you've seen. Carpeted in
green, the room has a large waterbed
and a closet. A framed picture sits on
top of a box which lies at the head of
the bed next to a silver heart-shaped
locket, a ring, and a scroll. A key is
also on a bureau which is against the
eastern wall.
^
The canyon continues on to the west.
Trondheim is to the east.
^
This is a natural bowl-shaped
depression in solid rock. Accoustics
are excellent, leaving you to wonder
why no one has staged a concert here?
Harpsichords and pianofortes would
sound GREAT! Maybe a little something
by Bach, or perhaps Pachabel's "Canon
In D"... Too bad Queensryche or
Metallica isn't around yet! THAT would
be a concert to be talked about for
CENTURIES. Speaking of which, it'll be
about five till either of these guys
show up, so be patient. Listen to a
little something on your Ye Olde
Walkman (or Discman, whichever you
prefer) to pass the time.
^
True to its name, this place is dark.
You get uneasy, sensing great evil at
work here.
^
The Stone Warrior's lair is here.
Giant chunks of basalt and granite
litter the rocky ground.
^
This is a giant gravel pile.
^
You're in the open. The hot sun beats
down on you relentlessly, and you feel
tired and thirsty. The horizon
shimmers, lost in silvery mirages. Dry
grass crunches underneath your feet.
Shading your eyes from the opressive
glare, you can see a path that leads to
the south towards a gray indistinct
mass. To the north appears to be a
small cave.
^
In this library resides food for the
imagination and inquiring mind. A
lectern is against the north wall, and
there are shelves upon shelves of books
here. Tables and chairs are spaced out
in the middle of the room, and several
skylights provide plenty of light for
reading or studying. The exit is
towards the east.
^
You are in a T-junction with halls
leading towards the north, east, and
west.
^
You stand in the middle of a hall. To
the east appears to be the entrance to
the temple, and to the west is an
intersection of halls.
^
This is the entrance to the main
temple. It is lavishly decorated in
sect masks, ornamental trinkets,
shrunken heads, jawbones, feathered
totems, and other primitive tribal
symbols. Two spears are crossed against
each other, point up, above the
doorway. Three steps lead up to a
square landing a few feet off the
ground. A stone foot and ankle stand on
each side of the stairs, this being
what is now left of an ancient statue
that straddled the stairs. Stairs lead
down to the east, towards the exit, and
rough wooden plankings lead off towards
the north and west.
^
Almost identical to those at
Watersmeet, and perhaps built by the
same craftspeople, these roughly carved
stone steps go up towards the north and
down towards the south. Minute cracks
can be seen in the steps, which is not
surprising since it often rains quite
hard here and the steps seem almost
porous.
^
This is a very steep path. Climbing
this once a day for a month will put
you in great physical shape! As you
huff and puff to get to the top, your
lungs wheezing in protest, you feel
lightheaded and notice the air is much
thinner at this great altitude.
^
There is a gilded crystal chandelier
hanging from the stone ceiling. A tall
ladder leans against the wall,
providing access to the candle holders
within. The fireplace, lit, is
crackling loudly and occasionally spits
sparks out at you. The flickering light
casts eerie shadows on the walls,
elongating your shadow until you look
like a giant. A stone table sits in the
corner, next to a rattan chair and a
pile of rushes.
^
The entrance to the Inner Sanctum of
the priest area seems to faintly echo
with the prayers of preists within.
Although shrouded in semidarkness, you
can sense movement somewhere along the
western wall. You begin to feel
spiritually uplifted as you get closer
to the prayer area.
^
You are on some stairs which lead to
the Inner Sanctum. Faint vibrations of
chanting worshippers can be heard, as
they are carried fairly well by the old
wooden floors. You feel a tingling
sensation in your body. If you didn't
know better, you'd think your soul felt
it too.
^
You are on a landing between several
flights of stairs. Cheerful spiritual
decorations line the walls, and the
windows shine their dusty light down on
you. It feels like their deity is
smiling upon you as you stand there,
staring out and towards the heavens.
^
You are walking along this incredibly
long canyon. The ground is hard and
rocky, and travel is rough. The high
walls seem to close in on you, and
what little sunlight gets through the
suddenly cloudy sky is pale and dim.
^
You have entered the grain storage
complex for the town stables. Bins of
oats, barley, hay, and mash line the
walls. Horse-smells abound, and there
is a slight thumping noise as you hear
a horse bumping into its stall, chewing
its food contentedly.
^
You are in the Sulidam Inn. It's an
immense structure of clapboard and
brick that has clearly seen better
days. The shingle roof sags, and the
paint is losing its battle with the
salt air. Still, there's something
inviting about the place. The building
somehow shrugs off its looks and offers
you a warm welcome.
^
You are on a river-rock landing that
leads up to a set of stairs that go to
the Sulidam Inn. Pretty flowers line
the stone planters in front of you, and
thin trees assert themselves in small
clusters all along the shaded avenue.
^
This alley was apparently used as a
major artery of travel for quite a
while a long time ago, and looks it.
Having been bypassed with a new road
and forgotten as the primary means of
travel years ago, the rutted, muddy
road now leads to what appears to be a
medium-sized city nestled in back of
the immense palace.
^
Several bony donkeys are tethered to
large clumps of dead grass and are
nibbling pitifully at what little food
the townspeople can spare, here in what
may as well be described as the
"outskirts" of the tent city. Farther
down to the east, villagers can be seen
living their lives in isolation,
desperation, abject poverty, and
hopelessness.
^
Crumbling stucco buildings line the
rutted avenue. People glumly go about
their business, though what there is to
do in this sad place, you cannot for
the life if you imagine. A dead tree
sags limply against a burned wooden
building, and salvaged rough-hewn
boards are stacked in wobbly piles
which encircle the shell of the
building. Small children sit on their
parents laps, looking curiously but
silently at you as you enter.
^
Tall dead brown grass partially
obscures a rusted sawblade that is
lying on the ground next to a wooden
wagon wheel. Piles of trash litter the
ground. Several frightened children are
here who regard you with suspicion:
they know you are a stranger in their
small city. Parents look at you with
pleading expressions, wordlessly
begging for help, money, or food...
^
A stout stone wall impedes your
progress east. Flat stones that paved
the rough ground here are cracked or
missing entirely. Thick patches of dead
grass heave smaller paving stones up.
An old man lies against the wall, his
knees tucked up about his chin,
grinning at you toothlessly, holding a
battered tin cup which he jingles every
so often. A few pennies can be heard
rattling around in the echoing depths
of the tin. Suddenly you feel rage
choking you. Why has the king allowed
his subjects to degenerate into what
you see before you? These stories were
all lies - Sulidam may have BEEN a
prosperous, happy city, but look at it
now! A hot tear trickles down your
dusty cheek...
^
This crevice seems to go down forever.
It gets very narrow towards the bottom.
You fear you may trap your foot in the
crack and never be able to get it out
again, so you stay as high up as you
possibly can.
^
The sandy ground here slopes sharply
towards a gaping hole in the earth,
making passage around it dangerous, and
footing becomes treacherous. A distant
cave can be seen towards the east, and
there are rough and rocky paths leading
off in the remaining three directions.
^
You have entered a dimly lit cavern. A
rattling and hissing noise alerts you
to the presence of a dangerous snake,
possibly several. Best be careful, they
strike quickly and can leave you
mortally wounded!
^
The shale walls of the interior of this
cave are dusty, crumbly, and light
filters poorly from chinks in the
ceiling. You can see a bit ahead to the
east, and in back of you to the west,
are tunnels which snake through the
heart of this cave. To the south is
some sort of hastily boarded up area.
^
The downslope of this dusty tunnel is
dangerous: the slippery gravel and
fragments of rock provide very poor
traction and you end up slipping and
sliding down most of the way. Just be
careful you don't break an ankle or
something.
^
You stop short in surprise: this being
the lowest point in the cave, it is the
logical place for all water to seep
into and runoff to end up in. The
center of the room has been transformed
into a small lake, having nowhere else
to go. Evaporation is not possible,
what with the solid rock faces present.
The walls are muddy and black with dead
algae. You bravely try to skirt the
edge, but fail because of impassible
rock formations.
^
The cave floor is damp and muck-filled
with mud and debris that lodged here,
apparently from flooding. The sodden
ground squishes disgustingly, sucking
at your feet. A foul stench wafts into
the room, carried on air currents from
the east.
^
You nearly pass out from the horrible
odor, as of something dead or dying,
but upon closer inspection, you notice
a nest of gargoyles. The small ones are
almost *cute*! You long to reach out
and pet one, but remember that their
grating scream would undoubtedly awaken
the mother or father (whichever it is
who is laying next to them, asleep as
well) and they would tear into you in
half a second.
^
You pause a moment, and push the door
open... The room is filled with large
stone statues of noble-looking people.
Each face seems to stare past your eyes
and into your soul. Aside from these
statues, the room seems to be fairly
empty, the floor thick with dust and
debris. Several exits lead to the north
and west, but should you really
continue?
^
This hall has formidable stone arches
and ivory torches rest in brass sconces
on the walls. Luxurious carpets feel
wonderful beneath your tired feet, and
a large fireplace which has a fire
cheerily burning in it and a stone
hearth dominates the southern wall.
^
This fire pit is filled with dusty ash
and charred bits of smoking wood. The
rough stone floor circling the pit is
littered with woven sleeping mats,
chipped pottery, and eating utensils
made of bone. There is a rough ten foot
by ten foot hole in the ceiling, and is
open to the sky. A net has been
fastened across this opening to prevent
debris and small creatures from
entering. A rope hangs down from one
corner of the opening to the floor.
^
This altar is simply constructed of
slabs of stone set on top of each other
in a staggered pyramid fashion. The
room contains several items used by the
priests in the worship of their gods.
Bone rythym sticks, a crumbling bamboo
flute, and the ramains of a feather fan
are here.
^
You are on some stairs, approaching a
landing. Carved out of the angled back
walls of the stairwell are two
bas-reliefs of humans holding lighted
braziers.
^
A rainwashed gully provides fairly good
footing, gravel has been swept
downstream leaving the hard-packed dirt
to walk on in relative ease and
comfort.
^
You have entered the stables of Sulidam
where all the town's horses are kept. A
sign is tacked on the wall, but you
cannot quite make out what it says. A
hand bell and book of some kind are
here. Although faint clanking noises
can be heard to the north, no humans
are in sight.
^
Here the splendor continues: Row upon
row of horses of every shape and color
you can possibly imagine are here,
quietly neighing and stamping in their
stalls. Although the faint smells of
hay and manure linger in the air, that
is to be expected in any horse stable.
The place is very well kept by caring
and competent owners, whoever they are,
and is mighty impressive.
^
You have entered a quiet alcove. Set
back from the hustle and bustle of
everyday life in this town, it seems to
radiate a certain sense of tranquility
and peace. And no wonder: a small sign
fashioned in the shape of an arrow
points towards the north, the entrance
of a local chapel.
^
You enter a comfortable, darkened room.
Amateur musicians sit around, tuning
their strange instruments and talking
shoppe...
^
This is most unusual: You've seen
stripes in the middle of roads before,
but whoever was in charge of painting
the stripe widened it so that the whole
width of the road appears yellow.
Apparently they were not of sound mind,
and went insane. You notice a manhole
cover set off to one side which appears
to be closed. Of several exits here,
one leads to the north towards a grubby
little alley, the other heads off to
the west and to the south is an outdoor
pavillion.
^
You find yourself at the edge of an
artisan's district. Skilled
craftspeople call out to you, hoping to
pique your curiosity and interest about
their wares. You weave in and out of
rows of tables full of finely made
curios, housewares, weapons, and
clothing, chatting with people for a
few minutes as they point out their
skill and handiwork.
^
Here a large booth has been set up in
order to showcase fine bone and wood
carvings, mostly incarnations of local
spirits and animals. You stare in your
admiration of the many fine details of
each and every piece. You believe it to
be truly amazing that such cold and
impersonal tools as the hammer and
chisel can create such delicate and
beautiful designs, but the results
before your eyes clearly disprove that
way of thinking.
^
A small cottage nestled in some low
grassy hills next to a small stream
catches your eye. Obviously a
woodcutter lives there, there are bales
of saplings tied with strong cord
laying about in neat piles, and an axe
has been driven into a stump next to a
well. A wide ribbon of vegetables winds
around in back of the cottage, and a
tall majestic oak tree belies the
presence of children with a swing which
hangs down from one of the lower
branches.
^
You have come to the end of the
artisan's district. A botanical garden
of sorts dominates your field of
vision. Beautiful arrangements of
plants and flowers have been carefully
arranged in interesting geometrical
patterns here. Even the gravel has been
raked into ridges around the path and
between the rows of the garden.
^
Only by holding your breath and barely
squeezing past the claustrophobic stone
walls can you enter or exit this area.
The walls encompass you, and it is very
dark.
^
This passage is barely wide enough for
you to go through. Your body scrapes
the walls, and you feel uncomfortable
trying to squeeze through, but you
manage anyway.
^
Faint traces of gold sparkle
hypnotically in the dark walls of the
cave. Glittering dust sits undisturbed
on the sloping floor.
^
Here and there, golden flashes of light
tease your eye. The floor becomes more
rough the farther along the corridor
you proceed.
^
The golden glitter is very faint and
well spaced out here. Cold breezes
whistle through the passageway, and it
gets increasingly darker and the
footing gets more treacherous.
^
The passageway ends here at a sheer
rock face, as if the tunnel diggers
decided to quit all of a sudden. There
is practically no trace of gold around
here, save for maybe one or two
sparkles in the uppermost reaches of
the ceiling.
^
You stand before a massive cave-in.
Piles of rock and debris neccessitate
picking your way around them carefully.
You look up often, fearing that the
weak-looking ceiling will collapse any
second, but thankfully it does not.
^
The lonely path you have been following
ends at a stout stone wall. To the
north lies a heavy wooden door, and to
the east lies the pavillion.
^
This pavillion has colorful tiles
placed in interesting patterns on the
floor and walls. Twin pillars mark all
four compass directions, and a bubbling
fountain filled with some kind of
orange liquid sits in the center of the
room. Stairs lead off to the south, and
a doorway can be seen to the east.
^
You step into this sparsely furnished
room in the southwest corner of the
main hall and look around. The hall is
about fifty feet square, two stories
high with balconies running along three
sides of the second story. This quarter
is simply decorated in a few ornamental
tapestries, nothing more.
^
This is a large, brightly lit place,
decorated with candles held in finely
crafted candleholders so the wax
doesn't spill. Hung on the wall is a
large mirror of polished silver and
bronze, patterned in shapes of
fantastic animals and plants the likes
of which you have never seen before.
Flecks of mica glimmer in the stones of
the wall, and sheets of feldspar and
quartz dangle near the candles,
scattering points of light everywhere.
^
You're walking on a slightly elevated
ramp which leads to a landing just
ahead to the north. The delicious aroma
of incense wafts unobtrusively into
your nostrils.
^
This rugged, rocky and shallow valley
comes to an end here. To the north lies
the rest of the valley, and to the east
lies a black metal gate set into a cut
out portion of the canyon wall.
^
You are just inside a black metal gate,
which is the entrance to Sulidam.
However, despite the city's reputation
as being one of the richest cities on
the continent, you have heard tales of
beggars and peasants within, stories
too numerous to be counted, and
therefore may be true. From what you
can see, the area bustles with activity
and life, and so far it appears to be a
very nice place in which to live.
^
You have entered the town square.
Crowds of people, carts, and assorted
livestock are all seemingly trying
to occupy the same space at once.
People mill about, engaged in
conversations on just about anything.
^
You are in a well-to-do area, there are
large mansions all over. You stand in
the center of the palace gardens.
Colorful sprays of exotic flowers burst
forth from the planters, and benches
are thoughtfully provided for those
weary of standing. There is a rich
looking palace to the southeast. To the
west and east lie roadways, to the
south lies a particularly extravagant
looking mansion, and the local music
club lies to the north.
^
This is the lavish entrance to the
King's palace. Guards mutter about
royal business you cannot hope to
understand but still listen to with
half an ear. Suddenly you feel somehow
embarrassed to be here.
^
This hallway snakes around in the inner
portion of the King's castle. At the
end of what you can see towards the
east the hall turns yet again.
^
Polished oak parquet floors dominate
this part of the hall and interesting
paintings line the hall. They show the
King when he was a small boy, smiling
happily.
^
Wonderful tapestries hang on the walls
here. Embridered with rich hues of
blue, green and the warm glow of yellow
makes them a pleasure to look at.
^
A magnificent clock towers above you in
all its royal majesty. A spectacular
cabachon crystal mounted with golden
brackets is on the top of the clock.
Twelve diamonds are set in the clock
face. The clock has a pleasantly mellow
and soothing sound when it ticks.
^
You slosh through this passageway,
ankle-deep in brackish water. A steady
dripping noise can be heard, and echoes
eerily throughout the cavern.
^
Everything in this room is coated with
a thick layer of chalk dust; you can
barely make out where to step, it is so
dim.
^
You go down the creaky steps and climb
around back of the house to a rocky
path. You are now standing just inside
the door of a rickety tool shed, as
there is not much space available to
move about within. Light filters poorly
through the small cobweb-laced window,
revealing piles of rusty pickaxes,
dusty gold pans, frayed rope, moldy
sacks, and wire mesh boxes. The only
exit is the way you came.
^
You stand in the center of a small
one-room shack. The roof looks in need
of much repair, leaking badly through
sizeable holes. The walls and floor are
thick with dust, the sink is piled high
with unwashed dishes, and a sagging
table sits against one wall with a
broken lamp toppled sideways sitting on
it. Towards the east you can see what
appears to be a shed of some sort.
^
Stairs lead up to a balcony which
circles the room below.
^
You climb some stairs and find yourself
on the second floor of the hall, on the
balcony that runs along the wall above
the entrance.
^
Beautiful jade and ruby statues line
the hall, and golden shafts of sunlight
make the walls sparke and shine.
^
You are on a landing flanked with red
marble pillars. The hall is decorated
with paintings of glyphs and spiritual
gatherings.
^
The room is dominated by a large dais
leading up to a beautiful altar.
Torches burn a heavy, sweet-smelling
incense which makes you drowsy.
The air rings with unearthly-sounding
bells, and the room shimmers and fades,
glowing oddly then growing dim as if
seen through thick fog. A muffled voice
speaks in a strange language, and you
can hear a light drumming noise coming
from somewhere in the room...
^
You are in the northwest corner of the
temple. Here monks in coarse hooded
robes are shrouded in ceremonial smoke.
The room is filled with an ominous
sounding mantra of some sort. Looking
more closely at the proceedings you see
they are trying to revive a wounded
eagle that has been shot with an arrow.
^
You are in the northeast corner of the
temple, next to the door. Statues made
of bronze and gold act as spiritual
watchdogs to ward off evil presences in
the midst of the temple. They give you
the creeps anyway. The temple's motto
is lettered in gold at the top of the
main doorway: "We Serve To Protect And
We Protect So You May Serve." Serve
what? Or whom? you wonder.
^
You poke your head in the door. Looking
inside, you can hear that a REALLY loud
party is in progress. People in various
strange-looking costumes are running
around, and what is that group over
there in the corner doing?? GOODNESS! A
short, chubby, merry-looking fellow
greets you at the door to the mansion.
"Welcome to my humble abode!" he says.
"You are just in time for the party!"
With a wide grin, he invites you in.
^
This is a bright and cheery courtyard.
It has a bird of paradise singing in
one of the tallest trees, and you can
hear the tinkle of a fountain in the
distance. To the south is the palace
reception area, to the east is the
King's anteroom.
^
The King's bedchamber totally takes
your breath away. Everywhere you look
gold and silver glitter enticingly,
just barely within your reach. Plush
and luxurious carpets, no doubt from
rare and exotic animals, line the floor
of the chamber. More pictures of the
King, now later on in years, are on the
walls. He still looks happy. There is a
beautiful woman, probably his Queen, in
a few of the pictures.
^
This is the entrance to the King's
bedchamber. An ornate sign, proclaiming
that "Visitors are welcome, but please
don't touch anything. (You break it,
you buy it.) Thanks - King Dwalin." is
posted outside the fabled monarch's
quarters. A burly guard is here, his
arms crossed defiantly over his chest.
^
You are near the end of the hallway
that leads to the King's bedchamber.
^
You are crawling on hands and knees on
a rough cobblestone path. The ceiling
is very low, and it is very dim.
^
In the center of this section of
hallway is a short staircase that leads
up to a platform. The platform stands
just above the water level. The floor
of the platform is damp and covered
with pale fungus. Beyond the platform
the steps lead back down into the
flooded hall. You see a a small stream
of air bubbles floating to the surface
of the water.
^
This badly flooded room has a dais set
in the middle of the room. There are
what appear to be thin wires laying
against the surface of the muddy water
encircling the dais. You can only
wonder as to their purpose. Sitting on
the dais, high and dry, is an oyster.
^
You are at the east end of a natural
cavern of great size. The air is hot,
steamy, and fouled by volcanic gases.
Here the floor of the cavern is a field
of bubbling mud pots, small geysers,
hot springs, and mineral crusts. Many
vivid colors such as rich reds, browns,
and yellows combine with blacks and
grays. Terraces crusted with deposits
from mineral springs extend from the
sides of the cavern at several points.
Stalactites hang from the ceiling,
merging with stalagmites in a few
places to form pillars from the roof to
the floor.
^
Occasional flares of ruddy light
combined with great bursts of steam of
some of the hot springs briefly
illuminate small points in the room.
Set on the topmost terrace, directly
underneath a dripping stalactite, sits
a throne upon which is a grinning
skeleton. Mineral-rich waters falling
from the ceiling for years have
encrusted the skeleton and hide all but
the most general features. A sword,
partially hidden by the mineral crust,
lies directly before the throne.
^
As you move down this hallway, you see
many large, rough holes in the walls
just above the water level.
^
This area is covered in rubble, making
passage difficult.
^
This area is covered in rubble, making
passage difficult.
^
Many crystaline ice formations meet
your eyes as you venture inside the
frigid caves. This vast cavern awes you
with its sheer magnitude; the ceiling
is thirty-five feet above your head.
The walls seem to stretch on forever,
and you feel small and insignificant in
comparison. Icy columns are scattered
everywhere, breaking what little
sunlight there is into rainbows that
shower different colors on the walls
and floor.
^
You stand on a snowy trail. Your feet
crunch through the crust of snow and
ice, and a few scattered trees have
thick layers of fluffy powder stuck to
them. The whole place seems to glow
with a dim radiance as subdued rays of
sunshine are scattered a hundredfold by
the prism effect of the crystaline
snow.
^
You stand on a snowy trail. The crust
of snow is weaker here, and you kick up
a fine powder while shuffling through
the snow.
^
You are inside your dingy, bouncing
along the length of an old flume.
^
You are inside your dingy, bouncing
along the length of an old flume.
^
You stand in front of an iron grate.
This houses the priest and protects
both your identities.
^
You enter a vaulted room. On the
ceiling there are rosettes and stars.
The walls are covered in paintings and
ornamental bands.
^
Shelves almost audibly groaning under
the weight of supplies for the church
are all along three sides of the room.
Everything is neatly boxed and labeled.
^
You are in the southwest corner of the
temple. A desk is set up with a crudely
handwritten sign above it which reads:
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< HEALING >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> is done <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<  here!  >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
^
You are in the southeast corner of the
temple. A large window looks out to the
south towards lush rolling green hills.
Monks sit here, their heads bowed in
concentration, and meditate.
^
These living quarters are quite
spacious, befitting for a mansion as
impressive as this one is. This chubby
guy, whoever he is, sure has lots of
gold... and he doesn't hoard it,
either. From what you can see of these
quarters, nearly five thousand gold has
been invested in the gilt work alone!
^
You are on a landing that leads up to
the owner's quarters.
^
A long red carpet stretches from here
to the throne at the end of the room.
Brass sconces adhered to the glowing
terra cotta walls cast a pleasantly
warm light upon your face.
^
You look up and notice the King looking
kindly at you from a distance. He is
saying something to you but at this
distance you can't quite make out what.
A guard is here, standing in front of a
wooden door to the south.
^
Many people go before the King, you
think to yourself. They know what to do
and say. As for you, you have no idea
how to act, and quite frankly, you're
nervous.
^
King Dwalin motions you to come closer,
smiling kindly. Looking into his face,
you promptly decide it's one of the
kindest-looking faces you've seen since
you started this whole adventuring
business.
^
The King allows you to come even closer
and talk to him. He says to you, "Rub
the lamp! It could use a good shine by
someone as pure of heart as you are, my
friend." Strange, since you could have
sworn it wasn't there a second ago...
You are immediately wary, yet you don't
want to offend him... Should you comply
with his request?
^
You stand on the mountain peak just
below the summit which is seperated by
a vast expanse of slick ice. The trees
end just below this point, and the path
is now framed by the dark colored rock
of the mountain. The path still gives
the only clear way to travel, though.
You see hard snow drifts, sculpted by
the wind, looking like frozen wavefroth
on the ocean. The whipping wind chills
you to the bone, and a few fat flakes
of snow splatter against your face.
^
You are on the mountain summit, and
stand on a large, flat, open expanse of
snow and ice. Beneath your feet is a
thick sheet of ice that glitters in the
weak sunlight. A light snow, which has
crystalized from the cold air, blows by
you.
^
You stand by the edge of a sluice gate,
peering down at a dangerous-looking
descent along an ancient flume. Your
heart beats faster, and you wonder if
you're really in your right mind to go
through with this... [More adventurous
players might want to type 'D.']
^
You are inside your dingy, bouncing
along the length of an old flume.
^
You are inside your dingy, bouncing
along the length of an old flume.
^
You have entered a peaceful-looking
arcade area, the entrance to what
appears to be a chapel. Round stone
planters house creeping vines and ivy
which lends a pleasant touch to the
venerable brick building.
^
You're at the bottom of the hill next
to an old well. The rolling plains make
this the only significant landmark in
quite a distance, really.
^
This wine cellar appears to have been
recently used... here the dusty
footprints continue from the previous
room and several bottles look like
they've been moved up to the front of
the rack.
^
This room appears to have been recently
used... the dusty floor has been
disturbed with footprints leading to
the southwest.
^
